S. Brand'on 1 1 5

and setteth our meat and drink tofore uS, but we
know not how it cometh‚ ne we ordain never no
meat ne drink sor υς, and yet we have been eighty
years here, and ever our Lord, worshipped rnay
he be, feedeth us. We be twenty-four monks in
number, and every ferial day of the week he sendeth
to us twelve loaveS, and every Sunday and feast-day
twenty-four loaveS, and the bread that we leave at
dinner we eat at supper, and now at your coming our
Lord harh sent to us forty-eight loaveS‚ for to make
you and us merry together as brethren. And always
twelve of us go to dinner whiles other twelve keep
the quire, and thus have we done these eighty yearS,
for so long have we dwelled here in this abbey. And
we came hither out of the abbey of S. Patrick in
Ireland‚ and thus as ye see our Lord hath purveyed
for υς, but none of us knoweth how it cometh‚ but
God alone, to whom be given honour and laud world
without end. And here in this land is ever fair

weather, and none of us hath been sick sith we carne

hither. And when we go to maSS‚ or toany other
service of our Lord in the church‚ anon seven tapers
of wax be set in the quire and be lighted at every
time without man's hand, and so burn day and night
at every hour of service, and never waste ne minish
as long as we have been here, which is eighty years.'
And then S. Brandon went to the church with the
abbot of the plaee‚ and there they said evensong
together full devoutly3 and then S. Brandon looked
upward toward the crucifix, and saw our Lord hang-
ing on the crOSS, which was made of fine crystal and
curiously wrought. And in the quire were twenty--

