204 S. T homas of Canterbury

thousand one hundred and seventy-oneâ€š and was
fifty-three years old. And soon after tidings came
to the king how he was slain, wherefore the king
took great sorrow, and sent to Rome for his
absolution.

Now after that S. Thomas departed from the pope,
the pope would daily look upon the white chasuble
that S. Thomas had said mass in, and the same day
that he was martyred he saw it turned into red,
whereby he knew well that that same day he suffered
martyrdom for the right of holy church, and

v commanded a mass of requiem solemnly to be sung

for his soul. And when the quire began to sing
requiem, an angel on high above began the office of
a martyr: Laetabitur justus, and then all the quire
followed singing forth the mass of the office of a
martyr. And the pope thanked God that it pleased
him to show such miracles for his holy martyr, at
whose tomb by the merits and prayers of this holy
martyr our blessed Lord hath showed many miracles
The blind have recovered their sight, the dumb their
speech, the deaf their hearing, the lame their limbs,
and the dead their life. IfI should here express all
the miracles that it hath pleased God to show for
this holy saint it should contain a whole volume.

