BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION

The Golden Legem! brings before US, as we open it,
two figures which might well have taken their place
among the personages whom its varied pages
chronicle. These are Jacobus de Voragine‚ its
author, and william Caxton, its translator. Both
names are among those that retain a claim on our
kindly remembrance. Both remind us os soenes and
events that, though widely out of relation to our own
time, may yet well attract and hold our attention.

JAoossUs DE VORAGINE

The older man was born in 1228 at a little town
not far from Genoa on the Riviera,——Varaggi0‚ where
at this day his statue stands a prominent adornment
of the Town Hall. At the age of sixteen Giaoopo
da Varaggio entered a religious order—that of the
Friars PreacherS, founded by S. Dominio de Guzman
some thirty years earlier. That Order had been
founded in great measure with the view of combating
the dangerous propaganda of the AlbigenseS, who
were gathering infiuence and armed force in the
South of France and who menaced the very existence
of Christianity and the stability of StateS. The
Dominicans were mixed up in many stormy episodes
and took part in the vigorous methods of repression

Α 1

l

