S. LOUIS

S. LOUIS, sometime the noble king of France‚ had to
his father a king right christian, named LouiS. This
Louis father battled and fought against the heretics
and Albigenses of the country of Toulouse, and
extirpated their heresy, and as he returned into
France he passed unto our Lord. Then the child,
of holy childhood fatherleSS, abode and dwelled
under the keeping of the queen Blanche his mother,
sometime daughter to the king of Castile, and as she
that loved him tenderly betook him sor to be learned
and taught under the cure and governance of a
special master in conditions and in letterS, and he
a150‚ as the young Solomon child, wise and disposed
to have a good soul, profited right greatly in all
thingS‚ more than any child of his age. Of which
good life and childhood his debonair mother enjoy-
ing herself, said ofttimes to him in this manner:
‘Right dear son, rather Ι would see the death
coming on thee than to see thee fall into a deadly
sin against thy creator.’ The Which word the devout
child took and shut it so within his courage, that, by
the grace of God which defended and kept him, it is
not found that ever he felt any atouchment, tache or
spot of mortal crime. In the end, by the purveyance
of his mother, and of the barons of the land, to the

end that so noble a realm should not fail of succes-
< 205

