S. CLARE

THERE was a marvellous holy woman in the city of
Assisi‚ which was named Clare. First ye shall
understand that her nativity was much worthy and
noble: as touching the world she was of right noble
lineage. Secondly‚ is found in her life and known
great plenty of virtues, It is read that this holy
virgin, after the time of her infancy, was 50 com-
posed in all good mannerS, in port, in maintenance,
and in continuance, that all others might take of her
fair and good ensample for to maintain and govern
them. And in especial she had so great pity of the
poor people, that ofttimes she spared her own mouth
and sent by secret messengers such as she should
herself have been sustained by. Also in making
devout prayer she had so great pleasure that oft-
times it seemed to her, being in orisonS, that her
spirit was refreshed with the sweetness of heaven.
She was in her array like 0111615, but by penance she
chastised her body, for how well that for the honour
of her friends she was nobly apparelled, yet never-
theless she ware always the hair on her bare body,
and from her infancy her heart had determined that
forto die she would never have other espouse than
Jesu Christ, And many other and plenty of virtues
shone in her, the which were overlong to recount.

*Thirdly, how S. Francis showed to her the vggay of
7

