SS. Adrz'an and Natalia 41

And when the emperor heard that, and that he would
do no sacrifice, he did do bind him and threw him in
prison. And when Natalie his wife knew that her
husband was in prison for the saith of Jesu Christ
she was glad, and ran to the prison, and kissed the
chains that her husband was bound with, and also of
the otherS‚ sor she was christian secretly, but she
durst not publish it for dread of the persecution.
And she said to her husband: ‘ Blessed art thou, my
lord Adrian3 for thou hast found the riches which
thy father and mother never left to thee, which them
that possess many things have need of, and shall
have thereos great need when they shall have no
time to borrow ne to take; when that one shall not
deliver that other from pain, ne the father the son,
ne the mother the daughter, ne the servant the
master, ne one friend another friend, ne riches them
that own them.' And when she had admonished him
that he should despise all worldly glory and friends
and kindred, and that always he should have his
heart unto celestial things, Adrian said to her: ‘Go
now, my sister, the time of our passion hasteth, of
which thou shalt see our end.’ Then she recom-
mended her husband unto the other saints that they
should comfort him, and then she returned unto her
house. And after, Adrian hearing when the day of
his passion should be, gave gifts to the keepers of the
prison, and delivered to them the other saints in
pledge, and went to his house for to call Natalie,
like as he had promised by oath that she should be
present at their passion. And a man that saw him
come, ran tofore him, and said to Natalie: ‘Adrian

