168 S. Edward

people shall arise against people‚ and a kingdom
against another. They have lain many years upon
their right side, and they shall lie yet on their left
side seventy yearS, in which times will be great
battleS, great pestilence, and great murrain, great
earthquakeS, great hunger and great dearth through
all the world.' Of which saying of the king they
greatly marvelled, and anon they sent to the
emperor to know if there were any such city or hill

in his land in which such seven men should sleep.
Then the emperor, marvelling, sent to the same hill 2

and there found the cave and the seven martyrs

⁹ sleeping as they had been dead, lying on the left

side every one. And then the emperor was greatly
abashed of that sight, and commended greatly the
holiness of S. Edward, the king of England, which
had the spirit of prophecy. For after his death
began great insurrections through all the world.
For the paynims destroyed a great part of Syria,
and threw down both monasteries and churcheS‚ and
what by pestilence and stroke of sword, streetS,
fields‚ and towns lay full of dead men. The prince
of Greece was slain‚ the emperor of Rome was slain‚
the king of England and the king of France were
slain‚ and all the other realms of the world were
greatly troubled with divers diseaseS.

When the blessed King Edward had lived many
yearS‚ and was fallen into great age, it happed he
came riding by a church in Essex called Havering,
which was at that time in hallowing and should be
dedicated in the honour of our Lord and S. John the
Evangelist ; wherefore the king for great devotion

