212 S. Louis

enamoured of the love of God, as PhineaS, punished
them right grievously.

Whereof it befell that a citizen of Paris who loathly
swearing had blasphemed Jesu Christ, against the act
or statute royal, which S. Louis by the counsel of the
prelates and princes had ordained and made for the
swearers and blasphemerS, at the commandment of
the said saint he was marked or tokened, at the lips
of him with a hot and burning iron‚ in sign of puni-
tion of his sin, and terror and dreadfulness to all
others And how for cause of that, he hearing some ¹

Δ say and cast in on him many cursingS, said: ‘1

would fain sustain on my lips such laidure or shame
as long as I shall live, so that all the evil vice of
swearing were left and cast out from all our realm.’

He had the signacle or figure of the holy cross in
so great reverence that he eschewed to tread on it,
and required of many religious that, within their
churchyard and tombs they ne should from thence
orthon portray ne depict the form or figure of the
cross and that the crosses so portrayed and figured,
they should make to be planed. O how great rever-
ence he had ! He also went every year on the good
Friday to the chapel within the palace royal for to
worship there the holy crOSS‚ kneeling, both feet and
head bare.

Of diligent discussing of causes and matters he
rendered or yielded just judgment. Of very dilec-
tion or love, he doubting that the strife, actions
and pleadings of the poor should come only to the
presence and knowledge of his councillorS‚ he went
and. presided among them at the least twice in a

