S. Edwara' 1 5 3

was borne away a great part, and sought and
enquired diligently for the thies that stole it. And
the king seeing the great trouble and sorrow of the
treasurer demanded him the cause of his heaviness
And when he had told it to the king, the king said
to him: ‘Sorrow no more, for peradventure he that
hath it hath more need to it than we '3 and so the
thies escaped and was not pursued.

After, when all things were quiet in the realm, the
council of the land assembled for to treat sor a
marriage for the king, at which thing, when it was
moved, he was greatly abashed, dreading to lose the
treasure of his virginity, which was kept in a frail
and brittle vessel; and what he should do or say he
wist not. For, if he should obstinately deny it, he
dreaded lest his vow of chastity should be openly
known, and if he consented thereto he dreaded to
lose his chastity, wherefore he commended himself
only to God, saying these words: ‘O good Lord,
thou deliveredst sometime three children from the
flame of fire in the chimney and furnace of the
Chaldees; and, by the Lord, Joseph escaped with
his chastity from the wife of Potiphar, she holding his
mande, and yet by thy mercy he escaped ς and, good
Lord, by thy virtue Susanna was delivered from the
death to the which the old unchaste priests had
damned her to; and by thy might, Lord, Judith
escaped when she had slain Holofernes and reserved
her from desouling and escaped without hurt; and
above all other thou hast preserved thy blessed
mother, most best and sweetest lady, she being both
wife and virgin ; then behold on me thy servant and

