94 S. A nstin

Christ.’ And anon all the doubts of darkness were
extinct in him.

And in the meantime he began to be so greatly
tormented with toothache, that almost, he saith, he
was brought to believe the opinion of Cornelius the
philosopher, which putteth that the sovereign weal
of the soul is in wisdom, and the sovereign weal of
the body is in suffering no pain ne sorrow. And his
pain was so great and vehement that he had lost his
speech3 wherefore, as he writeth in the book of his
ConfessionS‚ he wrote in tables of wax that all ment
should pray for him that our Lord should assuage
his pain, and he himself kneeled down with the
other, and suddenly he felt himself whole.

And then he signified by letters to the holy man, S.
Ambrose, that he [Ambrose] would send to him word,
which of the books of holy writ appertaineth best to
read in, for to be made most convenable to the chris-
tian saith. And he sent to him answer: ‘Isaiah the
prophet’ ; because that he was seen to be the shower
and pronouncer of the gospel and of calling of men.
And when Augustin understood not all the beginning,
and supposed all the remnant to be not otherwise
than it [the beginning] was to read, he deferred to
read them till he were rnore conning in holy writ. ⁶

And when the day of Easter came and Austin was
thirty years old, he and his son which was named
AdeodatuS, a child of noble wit and understanding,
whom he had gotten in his youth when he was a
paynim and a philosopher3 with Alipius his friend;
by the merits of his mother and by the preaching of
S. Ambrose3 received baptism of S. Ambrose. And

